Document object properties (#12)
minetest/minetest_docs: doc/object_properties.adoc

= Object Properties

WARNING: There may be missing/incorrect information here, please refer to the https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/doc/lua_api.txt#L7141-L7304[Lua API] and the https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/src/script/common/c_content.cpp#L186-L442[relevant engine code]

WARNING: This is missing the default values for everything

== `player` only

> === hp_max

Reviewer: Please use monospace for all properties

> Sets the max HP of a player. Wanted value is `u16`.

Reviewer: What if u16 is exceeded? Does it overflow (wrap around) or is it clamped?

Author: im not sure what the code actually does about this as I'm not very experienced in C++, you can see the relevant line: https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/src/script/common/c_content.cpp#L198

Reviewer: ```cpp
#define rangelim(d, min, max) ((d) < (min) ? (min) : ((d) > (max) ? (max) : (d)))
```
Looks like it's clamped

Author: should i add a little bit to the end of the sentence mentioning that?

=== breath_max

Sets the max breath of a player. Wanted value is `u16`.

=== eye_height

> How high the camera is in nodes about the player's feet. Wanted value is ??.

Reviewer: f32?

=== zoom_fov

Not sure.

== All

=== physical

Collides with nodes that are `walkable`. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== collide_with_objects

Collides with other objects, physical must be `true`. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== collisionbox

> The collision box of an object. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the object).

Reviewer: from the object center/pos

=== selectionbox

The selection box of an object, if not set, uses `collisionbox`. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the object).

=== pointable

Whether the object can be pointed at. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== visual

> Not sure. Wanted value is `string`.

Reviewer: Enumerate the visuals please

=== mesh

Not sure. Wanted value is `string`.

=== visual_size

> Visual size multipliers. Wanted value is `{x, y, z}`, if `z` is not provided, `x` will be used for the `z` value.

Reviewer: Wanted value is `vector` (`{x = x, y = y, z = z}`). Important distinction.

=== textures

Wanted value is `{"texture.png", "texture.png", ...}`. The number of textures depends on `visual`.

=== colors

Not sure

=== spritediv

> Not sure. Wanted value is `{x, y}`.

Reviewer: Is it really a list and not `{x = x, y = y}`?

=== initial_sprite_basepos

> Not sure. Want value is `{x, y}`.

Reviewer: Same here

=== is_visible

Whether the object is visible and can be pointed at. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== makes_footstep_sound

Whether the object makes a footstep sound when it steps on nodes that that have footstep sounds. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== stepheight

> How high in nodes the object can step up. Wanted value is ??.

Reviewer: f32 again?

=== automatic_rotate

> Not sure.

Reviewer: f32 again I'd assume

=== automatic_face_movement_dir

Not sure. Wanted value is `int` but can be set to `false` to disable.

=== backface_culling

Whether or not a model is backface culled Wanted value is `bool`.

=== glow

> Wanted value is `int`.

Reviewer: From 0 to minetest.LIGHT_MAX IIRC?

=== nametag

Text displayed about an object, empty by default for all objects except players, in which case, it is their name. Wanted value is `string`.

=== nametag_color

> The color that the nametag text will be. Wanted value is ??.

Reviewer: ColorSpec?

=== nametag_bgcolor

> Wanted value is ?? but can be set to `false` to disable.

Reviewer: ColorSpec?

=== automatic_face_movement_max_rotation_per_sec

Not sure.

=== infotext 

> Wanted value is `string`.

Reviewer: Text displayed when object is pointed at.

=== static_save

Whether the object is saved  statically, if not, it will be deleted when the world block is unloaded. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== wield_item

> Not sure.

Reviewer: ItemString?

=== use_texture_alpha

Whether or not the texture's alpha should be used. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== shaded

Whether or not diffuse lighting is enabled for the object. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== show_on_minimap

Whether or not the object is visible on the minimap. Wanted value is `bool`.

=== damage_texture_modifier

> The texture modifier to use when the object is damaged. Wanted value is `string`.

Reviewer: Will be appended to all current textures for the duration of the damage flash.

= Object Properties
include::../include/config.adoc[]
:url-c-content-src: {url-engine-src}/script/common/c_content.cpp

WARNING: There may be missing/incorrect information here,
please refer to the {url-lua-api}#L7141-L7304[Lua API]
and the {url-c-content-src}#L186-L442[relevant engine code]

> WARNING: This is missing the default values for everything

Reviewer: Add them please

Author: where would i find them?

Reviewer 2: object_properties.h is a good place to start, but be careful - the internal defaults there may be overridden somewhere else.

> WARNING: This is missing the default values for everything

Reviewer 2: Should we add in default values now before merging?

Author: probably

== Properties Applying Only to Players

=== `hp_max`
* internal type: `u16`

Sets the max HP of a player.

> Clamped if it goes above the `u16` max value.

Reviewer: And what about the other properties? Most of them are clamped as well. Not only for max, but also for min.

=== `breath_max`
* internal type: `u16`

Sets the max breath of a player.

=== `eye_height`
* internal type: `f32`

How high the camera is in nodes about the player's feet.

=== `zoom_fov`

> * units: `degrees`

Reviewer: And what's the type? `f32`?

Changes the field of view of player when they zoom. Setting to `0` disables zooming.

== Properties Applying to All Objects

=== `physical`
* field type: `bool`

> Collides with nodes that are `walkable`.

Reviewer 2: "Whether the object collides with nodes that are `walkable`" would be more consistent.

=== `collide_with_objects`
* field type: `bool`

> Collides with other objects.

Reviewer 2: "Whether the object collides with other objects." would be more consistent.

> CAUTION: `physical` must be set to `true` for this to take effect!

Reviewer 2: You need a newline before this, or it interprets it as part of the paragraph, so it doesn't display correctly.

//TIP: This could maybe be linked somewhere else.

* field type: `cuboid_def`

The collision box of an object. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the center of the object/ object position).

=== `selectionbox`
* field type: `cuboid_def`

The selection box of an object, if not set, uses `collisionbox`. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the center of the object/ object position).

=== `pointable`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object can be pointed at.

=== `visual`
* field type: `string`

Possible values:

* `"cube"`: A cube that has the same size as a normal node
* `"item"`: similar to `wielditem`, but ignores the `wield_item` property
* `"mesh"`: Use a mesh model, see the `mesh` property 
* `"sprite"`: A texture that is flat and always faces the player
* `"upright_sprite"`: A texture that is flat and faces upright
* `"wielditem"`: Used for dropped items, see the `wield_item` property

What the object will look like.

TIP: The `"wielditem"` value supports hardware colorization

=== `mesh`
* field type: `string`

Name of the file of the mesh, only when using "mesh" visual.

=== `visual_size`

> * field type: `3d_vector`

Reviewer: Just `vector`

Visual size multipliers. Wanted value is `{x = x, y = y, z = z}`, if `z` is not provided, `x` will be used for the `z` value.

=== `textures`

> * field type: `{string, string, ...}`

Reviewer: String list.

Wanted value is `{"texture.png", "texture.png", ...}`. The number of textures depends on `visual`:

* "cube": 6 textures
* "mesh": 1 texture for each mesh material
* "sprite": 1 texture
* "upright_sprite": 2 textures

=== `colors`

> * field type: `ColorSpec`

Reviewer 2: My intention was that field type would be the Lua value, and internal type would be the C++ value if appropriate to expose to the documentation.

WARNING: This feature is not functional.

=== `spritediv`
* field type: `2d_vector`

Determines the number of columns, rows in a spritesheet texture, which is used for animations.. Wanted value is `{x = columns, y = rows}`.

=== `initial_sprite_basepos`
* field type: `2d_vector`

Determines the position of the first frame to use in the spritesheet texture. Wanted value is `{x = column, y = row}`.

=== `is_visible`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object is visible and can be pointed at.

=== `makes_footstep_sound`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object makes a footstep sound when it steps on nodes that that have footstep sounds.

=== `stepheight`
* internal type: `f32`

How high in nodes the object can step up.

=== `automatic_rotate`
* internal type: `f32`

> How high in nodes the object can step up.

Reviewer 2: How is this different than `stepheight`?

=== `automatic_face_movement_dir`
* field type: `int` or `false`
* unit: `degrees`

TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

Make the object automatically face the direction it is moving in, the value is the offset in degrees.

=== `backface_culling`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether or not a model is backface culled.

Reviewer 2: Describing what backface culling is might be good for those who aren't experienced in graphics terms.

> === `glow`

Reviewer 2: Glow needs a description.

* field type: `int`

=== `nametag`
* field type: `string`

Text displayed about an object, empty by default for all objects except players, in which case, it is their name.

=== `nametag_color`
* internal type: `ColorSpec`

The color that the nametag text will be.

> TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

Reviewer 2: Need newline before TIP.

> === `nametag_bgcolor`

Reviewer 2: Needs a description.

* field type: `color_def` or `false`
* internal type: `ColorSpec`

TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

=== `automatic_face_movement_max_rotation_per_sec`
* field type: `int`

> Set the maximum automatic rotation to this value, no limit is the value is less than or equal to 0.

Reviewer 2: This is very confusing to me.

=== `infotext`
* field type: `string`

When a player points at the object, they will be shown the text.

=== `static_save`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object is saved  statically, if not, it will be deleted when the world block is unloaded.

=== `wield_item`
* internal type: `ItemString`

Only when using "wielditem" visual

=== `use_texture_alpha`
* field type: `bool`

Whether or not the texture's alpha should be used.

=== `shaded`
* field type: `bool`

Whether or not diffuse lighting is enabled for the object.

=== `show_on_minimap`
* field type: `bool`

Whether or not the object is visible on the minimap.

=== `damage_texture_modifier`
* field type: `string`

A texture modifier that will be appended to the object's current textures for the duration of the damage flash when the object is damaged.

== Layout of Object Properties

> The way these properties are laid out is in a table, the order of which is not important.

Reviewer: Remove the second part of the sentence. Order of the hash part is never important in Lua - this belongs somewhere else, in a Lua primer maybe. Consider noting that extraneous entries will be ignored, but might be interpreted incorrectly by future Minetest versions (which is why they should be prefixed with an underscore). Also please note that this uses the regular indexing, so metatables work as expected.

= Object Properties
include::../include/config.adoc[]
:description: Documentaton of Object Properties
:keywords: obj, props, object, properties
:url-c-content-src: {url-engine-src}/script/common/c_content.cpp

WARNING: There may be missing/incorrect information here,
please refer to the {url-lua-api}#L7141-L7304[Lua API]
and the {url-c-content-src}#L186-L442[relevant engine code]

WARNING: This is missing the default values for everything

== Properties Applying Only to Players

=== `hp_max`
* internal type: `u16`

Sets the max HP of a player.
Clamped if it goes above the `u16` max value or under the `u16` min value.

=== `breath_max`
* internal type: `u16`

Sets the max breath of a player.

=== `eye_height`
* internal type: `f32`

> How high the camera is in nodes about the player's feet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sets the camera height. Measured in nodes above the player's feet.
```

=== `zoom_fov`
* internal type: `f32`
* units: `degrees`

> Changes the field of view of player when they zoom. Setting to `0` disables zooming.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sets the field of view of the player when they zoom. Setting to `0` disables zooming.
```

== Properties Applying to All Objects

=== `physical`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether the object collides with nodes that are `walkable`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Controls whether the object collides with nodes that are `walkable`.
```

=== `collide_with_objects`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether the object collides with other objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Controls whether the object collides with other objects.
```

> CAUTION: `physical` must be set to `true` for this to take effect!

Reviewer: Perhaps also worth noting that this will work for players as well, but exhibits strange bugs (such as this one: https://github.com/minetest/minetest/issues/11783)

Author: is this not implied by the `Properties Applying to All Objects` subheading?

Reviewer: > is this not implied by the `Properties Applying to All Objects` subheading?

The former yes, the latter no.

=== `collisionbox`
//TIP: This could maybe be linked somewhere else.

* field type: `cuboid_def`

The collision box of an object. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the center of the object/ object position).

=== `selectionbox`
* field type: `cuboid_def`

> The selection box of an object, if not set, uses `collisionbox`. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the center of the object/ object position).

Reviewer 3: A note about it being the same format as a nodebox cuboid could be useful.

=== `pointable`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether the object can be pointed at.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Controls whether the object can be pointed at.
```

=== `visual`
* field type: `string`

Possible values:

* `"cube"`: A cube that has the same size as a normal node
* `"item"`: similar to `wielditem`, but ignores the `wield_item` property
* `"mesh"`: Use a mesh model, see the `mesh` property 
* `"sprite"`: A texture that is flat and always faces the player
* `"upright_sprite"`: A texture that is flat and faces upright
* `"wielditem"`: Used for dropped items, see the `wield_item` property

> What the object will look like.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sets what the object will look like.
```

TIP: The `"wielditem"` value supports hardware colorization

=== `mesh`
* field type: `string`

Name of the file of the mesh, only when using "mesh" visual.

=== `visual_size`
* field type: `vector`

> Visual size multipliers. Wanted value is `{x = x, y = y, z = z}`, if `z` is not provided, `x` will be used for the `z` value.

Reviewer 3: These are separate thoughts.

```suggestion
Visual size multipliers. Wanted value is `{x = x, y = y, z = z}`. If `z` is not provided, `x` will be used for the `z` value.
```

=== `textures`
* field type: `string list`

Wanted value is `{"texture.png", "texture.png", ...}`. The number of textures depends on `visual`:

* "cube": 6 textures
* "mesh": 1 texture for each mesh material
* "sprite": 1 texture
* "upright_sprite": 2 textures

=== `colors`
* internal type: `ColorSpec table`

WARNING: This feature is not functional.

=== `spritediv`
* field type: `2d_vector`

Determines the number of columns, rows in a spritesheet texture, which is used for animations.. Wanted value is `{x = columns, y = rows}`.

=== `initial_sprite_basepos`
* field type: `2d_vector`

Determines the position of the first frame to use in the spritesheet texture. Wanted value is `{x = column, y = row}`.

=== `is_visible`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object is visible and can be pointed at.

=== `makes_footstep_sound`
* field type: `bool`

Whether the object makes a footstep sound when it steps on nodes that that have footstep sounds.

=== `stepheight`
* internal type: `f32`

> How high in nodes the object can step up.

Reviewer 3: What does "step up" mean if I'm not familiar with engine terminology?

=== `automatic_rotate`
* internal type: `f32`

How fast the object automatically rotates along the `y` axis in radians/second.

=== `automatic_face_movement_dir`
* field type: `int` or `false`
* unit: `degrees`

TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

Make the object automatically face the direction it is moving in, the value is the offset in degrees.

=== `backface_culling`
* field type: `bool`

Whether a model is backface culled (the faces of the model who's backs are towards a player aren't rendered).

=== `glow`

> * field type: `int`

Reviewer 3: What bit length?

When calculating the texture color, add this much lighting. Maximum value is `minetest.LIGHT_MAX`.

=== `nametag`
* field type: `string`

Text displayed about an object, empty by default for all objects except players, in which case, it is their name.

=== `nametag_color`
* internal type: `ColorSpec`

The color that the nametag text will be.

> TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

Reviewer 3: The string"false" or the `bool` value `false`? If the latter, it should be "`ColorSpec` or `bool`.

=== `nametag_bgcolor`
* field type: `color_def` or `false`

> * internal type: `ColorSpec`

Reviewer 3: This is inconsistent with the one above it.

The color that the nametag's background will be.

> TIP: This property can be set to `false` to disable it.

Reviewer 3: Same question as the property above it.

=== `automatic_face_movement_max_rotation_per_sec`

> * field type: `int`

Reviewer 3: What bit length?

Cap the automatic rotation to this value. If the value is less than or equal to 0, there will be no maximum.

=== `infotext`
* field type: `string`

When a player points at the object, they will be shown the text.

=== `static_save`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether the object is saved  statically, if not, it will be deleted when the world block is unloaded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether the object is saved statically, if not, it will be deleted when the world block is unloaded.
```

=== `wield_item`
* internal type: `ItemString`

Only when using "wielditem" visual

=== `use_texture_alpha`
* field type: `bool`

Whether or not the texture's alpha should be used.

=== `shaded`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether or not diffuse lighting is enabled for the object.

Reviewer 3: This is slightly clearer IMO, but not by much.

```suggestion
Controls whether or not diffuse lighting is applied to the object.
```

=== `show_on_minimap`
* field type: `bool`

> Whether or not the object is visible on the minimap.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Controls whether or not the object is visible on the minimap.
```

=== `damage_texture_modifier`
* field type: `string`

A texture modifier that will be appended to the object's current textures for the duration of the damage flash when the object is damaged.

== Layout of Object Properties

The way these properties are laid out is in a table.

NOTE: Extraneous properties will be ignored, but might be interpreted incorrectly by furutre versions of the engine, which is why it is recommended to prefix them with an underscore.

NOTE: This uses regular indexing so metatables work as expected.

> == Example

Reviewer 3: Use a named example block please.

Whether the object is saved statically, if not, it will be deleted when the world block is unloaded.

=== `wield_item`
* internal type: `ItemString`

Only when using "wielditem" visual. The maximum number of characters is the `u16` max value.

=== `use_texture_alpha`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `false`

Whether or not the texture's alpha should be used.

=== `shaded`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `true`

Controls whether or not diffuse lighting is applied to the object.

=== `show_on_minimap`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `false`

Controls whether or not the object is visible on the minimap.

=== `damage_texture_modifier`
* field type: `string`
* default value: `"^[brighten"`

A texture modifier that will be appended to the object's current textures for the duration of the damage flash when the object is damaged.

== Layout of Object Properties

The way these properties are laid out is in a table.

NOTE: Extraneous properties will be ignored, but might be interpreted incorrectly by furutre versions of the engine, which is why it is recommended to prefix them with an underscore.

NOTE: This uses regular indexing so metatables work as expected.

== Example

> .Object Properties table example

Author: the leading dot is for the named example block, I will fix the inconsistent title case

====
[source,lua]
----
{
    hp_max = 10,
    breath_max = 5,
    eye_height = 0.8,
    zoom_fov = 0,
    physical = true,
    collide_with_objects = true,
    collisionbox = {-0.3, -0.3, -0.3, 0.3, 0.3, 0.3},
    selectionbox = {-0.3, -0.3, -0.3, 0.3, 0.3, 0.3},
    pointable = true,
    visual = "mesh",
    mesh = "mesh.obj",
    visual_size = {x = 1, y = 1, z = 1},
    textures = {"texture.png", "texture.png"},
    colors = {},

>     spritediv = {x = 1, y = 1},

Reviewer: Note a sprite, so please remove the irrelevant properties.

    initial_sprite_basepos = {x = 0, y = 0},
    is_visible = true,
    makes_footstep_sound = true,
    stepheight = 0.4,
    automatic_rotate = 0.0,
    automatic_face_movement_dir = 0,
    backface_culling = true,
    glow = 0,
    nametag = "My object",
    nametag_color = {r = 255, g = 255, b = 255},
    nametag_bgcolor = {r = 0, g = 0, b = 0},

>     automatic_face_movement_max_rotation_per_sec = 0,

Reviewer: Please sort this properly. This property should be next to `automatic_face_movement_dir`.

    infotext = "Hello there!",

>     static_save = true,

Reviewer: Is this an example for a player? Why set the `*_max` properties if it's not?

=== `hp_max`
* internal type: `u16`

> * default value: `1`

Reviewer: Are you sure about this?

Sets the max HP of a player.
Clamped if it goes above the `u16` max value or under the `u16` min value.

=== `breath_max`
* internal type: `u16`

> * default value: `0`

Reviewer: Again, sure?

Sets the max breath of a player.

=== `eye_height`
* internal type: `f32`
* default value: `1.625`

Sets the camera height. Measured in nodes above the player's feet.

=== `zoom_fov`
* internal type: `f32`
* units: `degrees`
* default value: `0.0`

Sets the field of view of the player when they zoom, in degrees. Setting to `0` disables zooming.

== Properties Applying to All Objects

=== `physical`
* field type: `bool`

> * default value: `false`

Reviewer: Lua API has a different default: https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/doc/lua_api.txt#L7168

Controls whether the object collides with nodes that are `walkable`.

=== `collide_with_objects`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `true`

Controls whether the object collides with other objects.

CAUTION: `physical` must be set to `true` for this to take effect!

> NOTE: This works with players as well but you may expericence https://github.com/minetest/minetest/issues/11783[strange bugs].

Reviewer: experience*

=== `collisionbox`
//TIP: This could maybe be linked somewhere else.
* field type: `cuboid_def`

> * default value: `{-0.5, -0.5, -0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5}`

Reviewer: Is the Lua API wrong? https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/doc/lua_api.txt#L7174-L7175

The collision box of an object. Wanted value is `{xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, zmax}` (in nodes from the center of the object/ object position).

=== `selectionbox`
* field type: `cuboid_def`

> * default value: `{-0.5, -0.5, -0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5}`

Reviewer: https://github.com/minetest/minetest/blob/master/doc/lua_api.txt#L7174-L7175

=== `mesh`
* field type: `string`
* default value: `""`

Name of the file of the mesh, only when using "mesh" visual.

=== `visual_size`
* field type: `vector`
* default value: `{x = 1, y = 1, z = 1}`

Visual size multipliers. Wanted value is `{x = x, y = y, z = z}`. If `z` is not provided, `x` will be used for the `z` value.

=== `textures`

> * field type: `string table`

Reviewer: `list` was better, IMO.

=== `colors`
* internal type: `ColorSpec table`

> * default value: `{{255, 255, 255, 255}}

Reviewer: `{{r = 255, g = 255, b = 255, a = 255}}`

=== `is_visible`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `true`

Whether the object is visible and can be pointed at.

=== `makes_footstep_sound`
* field type: `bool`
* default value: `false`

Whether the object makes a footstep sound when it steps on nodes that that have footstep sounds.

=== `stepheight`
* internal type: `f32`
* default value: `0.0`

How high in nodes the object can step up.

=== `automatic_rotate`
* internal type: `f32`
* default value: `0.0`

How fast the object automatically rotates along the `y` axis in radians/second.

=== `automatic_face_movement_dir`
* field type: `int` or `false`
* unit: `degrees`

> * default value: `false`

Reviewer: 0 according to lua_api.txt

Text displayed about an object, empty by default for all objects except players, in which case, it is their name.

=== `nametag_color`
* field type: `color_def` or `false`
* internal type: `ColorSpec`

The color that the nametag text will be.

> TIP: This property can be set to `false`(bool) to disable it.

Reviewer: Unnecessary, `false` is always a bool.

Author: https://github.com/minetest/minetest_docs/pull/12#discussion_r778418292 ...

Reviewer: > [#12 (comment)](https://github.com/minetest/minetest_docs/pull/12#discussion_r778418292) ...

Strings should IMO be quoted.
